
HOW IT WORKS ?

Read this Link : https://www.pubnub.com/blog/2015-04-14-building-android-beacon-android-ibeacon-tutorial-overview/
Link : https://www.bluetooth.com/what-is-bluetooth-technology/how-it-works

1) About Working groups and communities :

        Working Groups & Committees : Link : https://www.bluetooth.com/membership-working-groups/working-groups/working-groups-committees

        The Bluetooth® Core Specification defines the technology building blocks that developers use to create the interoperable devices
        that make up the thriving Bluetooth ecosystem. The Bluetooth specification is overseen by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG)
        and is regularly updated and enhanced by Bluetooth SIG Working Groups to meet evolving technology and market needs.

        There are three types of groups at the SIG:

        Working groups — responsible for developing new and enhanced Bluetooth® specifications and enhance already adopted ones.
                          Open to Associate and Promoter members.
        Expert groups  — act as advisors to working groups while providing expertise and guidance. Open to all members
        Study groups   — develop guidance documentation to enable new usage models which may lead to development of new specifications.
                          Open to all members.

2)
Bluetooth is the foundation for transformative wireless connectivity

Bluetooth® is a low-power wireless connectivity technology used to stream audio, transfer data and broadcast information between devices.
There are two flavors of Bluetooth technology : Refer : bluetooth_topology.png attached.

     1) Basic Rate/Enhanced Data Rate (BR/EDR) and

               Point-to-Point
               Bluetooth BR/EDR enables continuous wireless connections and uses a point-to-point (P2P) network topology to establish
               one-to-one (1:1) device communications. Bluetooth BR/EDR audio streaming is ideal for wireless speakers, headsets and
               hands-free in-car systems.

     2) Low Energy (LE).

               Bluetooth LE enables short-burst wireless connections and uses multiple network topologies, including point-to-point,
               broadcast and mesh.

                   Point-to-Point
                   Point-to-point (P2P) is a network topology used to create one-to-one (1:1) device communications. Bluetooth LE P2P
                   topology is ideal for data transfers and well suited for connected device products, such as fitness trackers and health
                   monitors.

                   Broadcast
                   Broadcast is a network topology that establishes one-to-many (1:m) device communications. Bluetooth LE broadcast
                   topology optimizes localized information sharing, making it ideal for beacon solutions, such as point-of-interest (PoI)
                   information and item and way-finding services.

                   Mesh
                   Mesh is a network topology for many-to-many (m:m) device communications. Bluetooth LE mesh topology creates large-scale
                   device networks tailor-made for building automation, sensor network, asset tracking and any solution where multiple
                   devices need to reliably and securely communicate with one another.

3) About Beacons Connectivity :
Link Refer  : https://www.pubnub.com/blog/2015-04-14-building-android-beacon-android-ibeacon-tutorial-overview/

Questoin : What a Beacon’s Advertisement Looks Like ?
Answer : According to the Bluetooth core specification, a beacon advertises a data package called the Scan Response Data.

    Mesh Networking Specifications : Link : https://www.bluetooth.com/specifications/mesh-specifications
    W.R.T Attached PDF file doc :

    1) Mesh system architecture : Layered Architecture

            MODEL LAYER

            FOUNDATION MODEL LAYER

            ACCESS LAYER

            UPPER TRANSPORT LAYER

            LOWER TRANSPORT LAYER

            NETWORK LAYER

            BEARER LAYER

            BLUETOOTH LOW ENERGY SPECIFICATION

    2) Network and subnets

    A mesh network consists of nodes sharing four common resources:

    •NETWORK ADDRESS used to identify source and destination of messages (see Section 3.4.2);
    •NETWORK KEYS used to secure and authenticate messages at the network layer (see Section 3.8.6.3);
    •APPLICATION KEYS used to secure and authenticate messages at the access layer (see Section 3.8.6.2); and
    •an IV INDEX used to extend the lifetime of the network (see Section 3.8.4).

     There is one special subnet called the primary subnet, which is based on the primary NetKey.  Nodes on the primary subnet participate
     in the IV Update procedure, while nodes on other subnets only propagate the IV Index updates to those subnets.


    3) Provisioning (Page 227 of 331)

    Provisioning is a process of adding an unprovisioned device to a mesh network, managed by a Provisioner. A Provisioner provides
    the unprovisioned device with provisioning data that allows it to become a mesh node. The provisioning data includes a network key,
    the current IV Index, and the unicast address for each element.
    A Provisioner is typically a smart phone or other mobile computing device. Although only a single Provisioner is required on a
    network to do provisioning, multiple Provisioners may be used. The method to share cached data and coordinate across multiple
    Provisioners is implementation specific.
    To provision a device, the provisioning bearer must be established between a Provisioner and a device. A device can be identified
    to a Provisioner by its Device UUID and other supplementary information that may also be provided.
    After the provisioning bearer is established, the Provisioner establishes a shared secret with the device using an Elliptic Curve
    Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) protocol. It then authenticates the device using OOB information that is specific to that device. Such
    OOB information may include a public key of the device, a long secret, the requirement to input a value into the device, or the
    requirement to output a value on that device. Such OOB information also enables the authentication of that device. Once the
    device has been authenticated, the provisioning data is transmitted to the device encrypted with a key derived from that
    shared secret. The device key is derived from the ECDHSecret and ProvisioningSalt.







